welcome back ladies and gentlemen to the
Chinese sayings podcast Laszlo
Montgomery here with another beaut and
like all Chung you introduced during
this second season of the CSP this
saying is something or other to do with
music and making an encore appearance in
our musical Chung you for this time is
the king of Qi Qi Shen Wong he reigned
319 to 301 BCE yeah I know
warring States period again she was
located where Shandong provinces today
with the capital at Leeds or present
dates the ball I've been there but I
didn't know was the capital of Qi when I
was there you all no doubt remember this
king as the one who counted no less of
philosopher than monza himself as a
personal advisor back in season 1
episode 4 we looked at un mu show you to
climb a tree to catch a fish some of you
who are good with names will be called
king shin of Qi from that episode well
he's back and we could all thank Han Fei
for bringing us this particular Chinese
saying his eponymous book serves as one
of the bedrocks of legalist philosophy
that had a big impact on Qin sure Wong
and his whole Chien administration and
in the section called nacho foolish
young master Han Fei gives us today's
useful Chung you lan yu Chun Chiu let's
pick it apart the first character LAN
means to overflow excessive and in this
Chung you it means indiscriminate a you
is a kind of ancient Chinese woodwind
instrument with multiple bamboo pipes
all attached together Chung means
sufficient fall and also to pretend or
pose as something you ain't like Cho
Nahan to pretend to be an expert and the
fourth character is Shu which means
number or amount this one for sure
doesn't give it away
indiscriminate you pretend number yeah
forget it unless you already know what
this means you
figure it out you have to know the story
behind it or have already read about it
in the Han feeds so King Shen aside from
being a troublemaker who enjoyed warring
on his neighbor's was a great lover of
music he particularly loved the you now
I didn't mention this before but this
ancient instrument was often played in
an ensemble consisting of many many
other new players King Chen's royal
ensemble no kidding had something like
300 view players I was more than a
temple city kazoo Orchestra at its peak
and let me tell you these you musicians
got paid well and whenever King Shin
called for them they got to enjoy a nice
meal at the palace also so it was a nice
steady well paying gig with perks the
dream of many a musician and artist not
just today back then - there was also
this lovable loser named mr. nan cool
yeah one of those fushing or two
character surnames not rare but you know
meet him every day there were two things
mr. nan hua enjoyed doing bumming a free
meal off someone and loafing on the job
somehow he got wind of the deal these
musicians had playing the you for King
Shen he actually had this hold you at
his house that had been handed down for
generations so he went and got it he was
just a low-level guy at the palace and
Hong Kong he's like like I saw kind of a
worker you know like a handyman and
somehow he was able to talk to someone
at the palace and the musical director
interviewed him and advocated on his
behalf to King Shen and the King of
course said yeah you know the more the
merrier
so mr. nan Gua before you know it set
with all the other 300 you musicians and
for several years played in the
orchestra the only thing was that mr.
nan quoi had no idea how to play to you
he he'd just go through the motions and
sway with the other musicians and you
know pretend like he was blowing his
instrument and you know totally getting
into it
he was one player amidst an ensemble of
300 no one could tell that he was just
faking it just going through the motions
300 musicians all playing that you if
one doesn't have any sound coming out of
it who's gonna know
well this nice easy gig came to an
ignoble end for mr. nan quoi one day is
luck ran out and king shen died his son
became the new king of Qi
this was the infamous king mean she mean
Wong a king so bad he brought down the
whole state of Qi but that's another
story he liked music too and when his
ministers arranged a little impromptu
performance for the new king all 300
players of this all hue orchestra
started playing and king mean shook his
head and said I don't like it this way
at all I much prefer soloists so mr. nan
cause heart started pounding and he knew
this gravy train was leaving the station
and he had to get off so as the king
selected members of the orchestra to
each perform a solo mr. non-core slipped
out the back and well got out of the
music industry for good so this mr. nan
quoi
he was aligned you au player
indiscriminately chosen to changsu to
make up the necessary number required so
anyone who obviously has no talent but
joins the team and poses as a somebody
of talent there a line you chose Xu
you'd say this in a mocking derisive
kind of a way when you when you say
someone is pulling a line you Chong Shu
there's someone with little or no talent
but they're trying to make it look like
they're quite the expert this can be can
be anything not just musicians people in
the office your general manager workmen
who come to fix your appliances or your
car your lawyer your financial adviser
anyone who isn't half as good as they
make themselves out to be LAN you chew
on the shoe and another thing this
Cheung you has another use let's say you
are an ex
Bert you play an instrument like a
virtuoso or Europe fabulous public
speaker scientists and people call you
out and recognize your outstanding
virtues and compliment you well in a
self-deprecating way you can just wave
them off and call yourself
LAN you Chong Xu and I'm just an
impostor so don't forget you could use
it that way as well to express humility
or modesty so that's it nothing fancy
today no need to keep you here any
longer than necessary that's the story
of King Chen of Qi personal friend of
monks who loved music in more of a
quantitative way rather than
qualitatively and his son who brought
down the house and 284 BCE the wicked
King mean who because he only enjoyed
listening to you solos
he brought a quick end to the lazy
poseur non-gaussian shown mr. nan wah
lah you chum Xu to be selected to play
the you just to make up the number no.1
of talent we all know one don't we so
until the next time that's gonna be all
I have for you lan yu Tong Xu you could
say that about yourself but don't catch
anyone else saying it about you hey
don't forget for more than a hundred
excruciating hours of Chinese history go
check out the Big Brother podcast to
this Chinese sayings podcast yes the
venerable old China history podcast and
for lovers of antiquarian books written
by people who went to China during the
Ching dynasty and wrote about what they
saw go check out the China vintage hour
and this Chinese sayings podcast
remember it's also available when you
fly Cathay Pacific comes complimentary
with their in-flight entertainment
system no need to swipe your credit card
to listen another reason to fly Cathay
Pacific they're thinking about making
that the new slogan of the airline
anyway take care everyone
this is Laszlo Montgomery on behalf of
everyone at tea cut media and Joe way
and all the little people who have to
pay taxes over at the cheung yu-yan cho
Junction wishing you a fond farewell and
beseeching you to consider coming back
next time for another musical Cheung you
here at the Chinese sayings podcast
you